Right on the truck, you know, back and forth from
the stable hauling the hay and what not. That was, I
enjoyed that. But those Army people took care of
it. At that time, and the artillery, they had the
caissons, I think it was, or two-wheel things, and
the horses would pull that. And that was quite an
occasion, because all that was done out on the
drill field. for review or whatnot. But those Army
people took care of the horses, and I suppose I
remember how they used to saddle-soap the saddles
and do that sort of work. Describe the student body
generally. Where did they come from? What kind of
families? What were their attitudes? What were
Aggies like in the 30s? Well, these were all, you
might say, pretty well just country boys, of
course. They weren't over what? I don't remember
the exact figures. They weren't over two or three
thousand, were they? At that time, it might have
been five or two or three thousand.
You got to where you knew everybody.
First name and last name, of course. Kind of knew
where they were from. You know in these bull
sessions where you'd sit there and talk to each
other.
I've forgotten a lot of it. Were they liberal,
conservative? What was their attitude about hard
work? About hard work? Well, I think everyone
liked appreciated it. They
appreciated everything that we had and
were thankful of it. I know some of these boys that
came down, particularly in the project houses,
they were just thankful that they could go to
college and be able to afford it.
And were most of them from the country in small
towns or were there a lot of city boys from Houston
and Dallas? I would say at that time I thought they
were mostly from out in the small towns. The 4-H at
that time, or extension service, we got a lot of our
people that came, at that time they had a A group
that came in once a year, I can't remember exactly,
Extension Service of the 4-H, and I suppose at that
time, I don't know how many thousand kids and their
teachers would come to A&M, and they had a big tent
for soda water and whatnot out on the drill field,
and they stayed in the dormitories. And they
brought in every kid that wanted to come. Later
years, as I understand, they started restricting
it to winners or certain ones. But at that time,
every kid that wanted to come down there got to
come. And they would come by every means from every
little small town in Texas. And I remember when I
was going to school, I went around and I wasn't
supposed to. College still had restrictions, but
when I was going to grade school, I got some
postcards from a place in Brown, and I sold those
postcards on the campus. They were postcards of
A&M and things like that, and I believe I made as
much as $25 or $30 in a day. I really, that really
helped me. Those kids bought those postcards, and
I even was able to get them some stamps along once in
a while. And I, this place in Bryan called
Haswell's, up in, they had little postcards, I
don't know how many years, and I almost got them
all. Where did those kids stay on the campus? Where
did they sleep? They stayed in the dormitory. And
it seemed like to me some of them might have stayed
in tents or something. I don't know. Oh, there must
have been at that time maybe 10,000 or 12,000, best
I remember. They really went all out for it. Did
they use DeWare Fieldhouse? Did they sleep there?
I just don't remember. I don't remember that. All
right, back to the student body. Do you remember a
variety of students, German, Italian, Mexican,
in terms of their ancestry? Were there some
German-American boys? If they were, I didn't
realize it. Well, I'm talking about, say, from
Brenham. Like the kids from Brenham, were there
some Czech and German? We weren't conscious of
that at the time. All right. As a matter of fact, way
back there, you might have this hard to believe,
when I lived across from my grandfather and going
to grade school, I didn't realize the blacks were
going to another school. It didn't enter my mind. I
played with them after, in the cotton field after I
got out of class, stuff like that. But it didn't
enter my mind that they were going to another
school. And there was a black elementary school in
College Station then, I presume.
I don't know where it was. I don't know. Where you
said out in the cotton field, where was that? Well,
that's back where the campus theater was. Oh,
okay. That's where the campus theater is now. That
was plowed ground? There was some fields there?
There was a cotton pasture there, and part of a pen
there that my grandfather kept cattle. He had been
on the board of directors at A&M, and he sold cattle
to the mess hall at A&M. Also, our water, we had a
little problem with getting water from A&M. At one
time, they didn't want to give us water over there.
Of course, my grandfather had a well in the back of
the house, and then I suppose they got other water
at A&M.
Later, I think we got some water coming from A&M.
And what was his name, your grandfather? W.C.
Boyette.
He was on the board of directors at Texas A&M, as I
understand, one time. And they also had that store
at the North Gate that he operated. When did your
grandfather come to Brazos County? Do you know?
No. Did he grow up? No, I don't really. My mother was
born there. My mother went to Villa Maria Academy.
Matter of fact, I've got a picture in there that
shows her on the basketball team.
Somehow or another, my mother lived at College
Station, but she went to Villa Maria. Because that
was out east edge of Bryan, wasn't it? Yeah. I don't
know how she got there. By buggy, I suppose. You
mentioned the Interurban. When did it quit
running, do you know? Was it operating when you
were an A&M student? I'm quite sure it was, because
I remember we went to, the student was, I was still
going to Bryan once in a while to the picture show,
and it came down right in front of where the campus
theater is, and I believe that's where they had a
house where they sold tickets or whatnot, and that
was close to what's called a bachelor's hall.
There used to be a bachelor's hall at A&M.
But bachelor's hall, they served meals in there
and everything. I think that was kind of
professors that were not married that still
wanted, could live on the campus. Most of all of
those that lived on the campus were professors or
workers at A&M like the power plant, plumbers,
like they had a house also at A&M. Now the
interurban, where did the tracks run between
College Station and Bryan?
The Interurban first started over here where the
old Eagle office was, and I think I'd say it went
down Texas Avenue and turned on... College?
Turned on Cabot. Cabot. There used to be a big house
up there, Cabot. It went on down, and you know how it
crosses North Avenue, turns around through
there, and then it, that's why that street cuts out
through there. Then it went across, what is it,
College Avenue, and circled all around There used
to be a creek over there, I believe. And it turned,
then turned to the left and came down to the, in
front of the, where the campus theater is. And
there was a building there and that's where it
stopped. It didn't go, it stopped just at the edge
of campus. It didn't go right on the edge on the
campus. About how often did it run? Every hour?
About every hour. And I think it was two of them. And
they would alternate, and sometimes it was real
difficult to get on there, particularly you came
to Brown on the weekend and went to the picture
show. Did any of your buddies have cars? Any of your
student buddies? Not that I remember. We used to
train all the time. They used to train to
go anywhere. The train was the transportation.
How often did you ride the train while you were a
student? Well, I went to Dallas, I remember. I went
to Louisiana that one time. I think it was Baton
Rouge. I
think for the Rice game I hitchhiked.
I know I went to Dallas.
There might have been one or two other trips. Oh, I
went on the train to the Baylor game. I remember
that. But the other trips I don't really remember.
Do you remember some students who had to drop out
because they didn't have the money? No, I really
don't.
Once you registered there, it seemed like, you
know, they were like the project house boys. They
required, at that time, when you registered at
A&M, if you were on campus, you had to pay for the
room and the board. The whole semester. So if you
registered, you were for the semester. Now, the
project house boys didn't have to pay that, of
course, and they mainly ate food that was brought
from their home county.
Describe the variety of jobs that students had on
campus. Y'all mowed the lawn and cleaned up the
horse stables. What else? Well, I remember a lot of
students were lucky enough to be waiters in the
mess hall. O.D. Butler was one of them, and he
learned a lot about
things as a waiter. Did you know O.D. as a student?
No, I didn't. Knew him later in the reserve.
There weren't many other jobs that I could
really...
Did they do janitor work? Did they sweep floors?
I believe they did. Well,
I don't remember any cleaning crew that would have
been there. What were the best student jobs?
If you had your choice. The mess hall. Is that
right? I think, for what I remember. Who ran the
mess hall then? Who was in charge of the food
service? Well, I believe it was a man named Duncan.
And he had a daughter that also went to school at
Consolidated. He was in charge of the mess hall,
and he had a house that was there near the mess hall.
They had a real two-story house, and that's where
the board of directors stayed and where they did a
little high-type
entertaining, as I remember, there in his home.
And the board of directors stayed there. Now, you
did eat some on the campus, didn't you? Yes.
Describe the food that was served in the dining
halls.
Well, it was very good.
Maybe I ate there one term, I'm not sure. I didn't
eat a whole lot at times at the mess hall.
But you had to march in, of course, and sit down,
take your hat off, and you had to know the names for
everything on there or you didn't get it. What were
some of those names?
I can't remember now.
But you had, everything had a certain name.
And you had to know that. They didn't rush you. You
were able to sit down and enjoy your meal. It wasn't
like some of I've heard some places since then. It
wasn't that way. You could, you could, but you did
have to know and have, you had to act a certain way.
And of course, you had a certain place to sit too.
That was all really well organized. The only thing
you could do is when you walked into the mess hall,
as you got up to the steps, then you could start
yelling and running. But then, when you got in
there, then you, that was over. You acted
correctly. Well, as you recall, what was your
favorite dining hall food? What did you like best?
I can't remember. I really can't. Was the food
good? Oh, yes. Yes. Was there enough of it? Oh,
yeah. Oh, yeah. Had plenty of it. It was very good. I
remember when I was going to, one thing I can
remember about the, mainly about the mess hall,
was when I was delivering newspapers as, when I was
going to the slaughter days, and I'd take several
newspapers and go in the kitchen, and I could have
some of the best Fried ham sandwiches.
I remember that. Well, those days really,
anything you had a lot of times, you appreciated
because a lot of times you were hungry. And when you
ate, a lot of times, we were hungry, and of course
young people like that eat more anyway.
My mother did real well. She ran a boarding house
there off the campus. Several others did. A lot of
ladies did. Now who ate in those boarding houses?
Some professors and some students that were day
students. They called them day students. And a lot
of the army people. Those army people that were
taking care of that, they ate in boarding houses.
And some of the professors, some of the different
ones off the campus. But I went through a lot of
times there. My mother did real well at feeding me
and everything, but way back there I went hungry
several times. I appreciated, when I sit down and I
appreciated I'd go to a friend's house. I was
always welcome. At that time, you didn't have to
call. As kids, you didn't have to call or anything
like that. You'd go there, and if it was come time to
eat, you'd sit down, and they might not have
anything but maybe cornbread and a big bowl of stew
or something. But you were always welcome. Now,
you said your mother ran a boarding house where?
Well, my grandfather had built three houses, I
believe it was, right across from where he lived at
where the campus theater is. We lived in the second
one. And that's where the house was located.
That's where the house was located that they stole
that house from. And
did some students live in these boarding houses?
Did people live, rent a bedroom? Yes.
The first house right across from my grandfather
was right near what the old Stucco building is. My
uncle built a kind of a rooming house there, and one
or two of the, I think, of the single professors had
rooms there, and then he
rented some rooms to people that maybe worked on
the campus, maybe at the exchange store, stuff
like that. And then there was another house down
below there that's gone now, a two-story house,
and she ran a boarding house there. She had a few
rooms there. There was no hotel or anything like
that around. Was Lupo yet in business at the
Northgate? No, I think Lupo was going to school
when I was. Okay. He might have been... handling
books at the time. I bought my books secondhand. He
may have had some little place where he was selling
books. I had to buy a lot of them at the exchange
store, I remember, and they were always higher.
And it was over there on the north side of the campus
back north of Sabeasa, the exchange store?
Duncan.
If you go around, I think it's, go on the campus from
the north gate. Yes, sir. There was a house there
Mitchell lived in, I believe, and then Duncan,
around the mess hall, in the mess hall, and you go
around there across Military Walk and on left with
this grocery store on the right was the exchange
store. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. And they also had a
telegraph station in there. Oh, I worked for them a
little bit delivering some, delivering
telegrams. They were upstairs. You worked while
you were a student? Right. Later on, that was one
reason I didn't do very good. I got a part-time job
with the triple agriculture department at night,
so that's one reason why I didn't do very well at the
time. You mentioned Pinky Downs. Was he on the
campus when you were a student? Not that I
remember. I knew him later. That's what I thought.
If the students were going out, was the rock pit,
did they go swimming in the rock pits then when you
were a student? It wasn't the fish tank I believe it
was. Okay. For some of them fish. They didn't go out
much like that. Did they go to the river sometime
and have a quiet party? Not that I remember.
Now, how did you guys get dates?
Well, it seemed like at that time we didn't get
dates like young people do at that age.
Not like it is today. Did you take a date to the
cotton ball or the ring dance? Do you remember
that?
No, I didn't at that time.
I just didn't have the money as best I remember.
Were there some famous visitors? Fellas didn't go
in for dates at that age like they do now.
That was an occasion for some of those girls from
CIA to come down here. You had to buy her flowers, I
suppose, and a few things like that.
While you were a student, were there any famous
visitors that came to the campus? that you
remember?
I think it was Roosevelt that came and rode the car
around Kyle Field. I don't know whether I was at A&M
then or not. I've forgotten. But best I remember, I
was down there. It wasn't a real big occasion to me.
We didn't know too much about politics then,
didn't worry too much about it. All we had was
radio.
And do you remember what programs y'all enjoyed
most on the radio? What did you listen to most? No, I
didn't listen to too much.
And you lived off campus all your student years?
Yeah. I lived off campus all the time. Sometimes I
lived in a house across from where the campus seat
is. My grandfather died and then I moved over
there. My mother also ran a boarding house there
and we had some extra rooms there. But that's where
I was living when I graduated from A&M. Do you
remember going to Silver Taps as a student? No, I
really don't, but if they had some, I'm sure I was
there. Did you work on Bonfire? Did you help gather
stuff for Bonfire?
I don't remember, but I'm sure I did. That would
have been part of, as I say, every activity, even
though I was what they call a day student. every
activity you had you you willingly you didn't have
to but you you did now where was bonfire held on the
drill field right on the drill field and what i
think i i was here at the time but that boy got killed
flying over and he dropped a can of gasoline on it oh
describe that well as i remember some student from
Texas University came over in a plane. And he
dropped a can of gasoline, as I understand, I don't
remember. And when he came down and he took off, and
the rise of the plane ended turned over to the right
somewhere around about hit the ground about where
Olsen Field is and killed him. That's really all I
can think of. Did he drop the can of gas? As I
remember, he did. But it didn't? It didn't do any
good. I don't know. At that time, also, for the
bonfire, they put people around at the entrances
to A&M. See, A&M There weren't very many
entrances. Well, there's still not. North Gate, I
don't remember whether one was up at the, there was
one at the South Gate and one at the West Gate. I
don't remember the one being at the East Gate where
you could drive onto campus until later. But see
the, more or less, West Gate where the railroad
station was. And bonfire, what was put into the
bonfire? What did they burn? Well, that was just
sticks and crates and all things of that nature.
And about how long did the students work to gather
that stuff? I don't think they worked there as long
as they do today. And how did that outhouse get
stolen from your family? At night. It
was right at the edge of the campus. And I don't know
whether that's the one they put on top or not. They
might have just used it for the wood. They went
around, took these things from the railroad
station, went all around as much as they could and
gathered up, usually it was lumber and I reckon
trees that had fell down or something like that. As
I remember, we were not the only people that had
their outhouse stolen.
Didn't have to. We didn't object to it at all. But
now I'm assuming that In those years, y'all didn't
worry about something important being stolen.
You didn't have to lock your car, your house. We
didn't have any locks on our house at all. Might
have been a lock put in there. I don't know whether
it was or not. You didn't have to worry about
anything on or off the campus, either one. There
was not that problem. Do you remember going to
final review and
commencement? Describe those. Well, I remember
going to the commencement just a little bit, but
you see, at the time, I had to take military
science, and even though up until the time I
graduated, I had to wear a uniform. I didn't take
ROTC the final two years because I had dropped out
with a hernia, and to get what's called advanced
contract, you had to have your grades up okay, and
even if you had your grades up, to get the advanced
contract was difficult.
They didn't have that many openings. So, after
marching around in the final review, I did it as a
freshman and a sophomore.